# DDD (Domain-Driven Design) and Clean Architecture

DDD (Domain-Driven Design) and Clean Architecture are both software 
architectural patterns that emphasize modular and maintainable code. While 
they share some similarities, they have different approaches to organizing 
folder structures. 

DDD focuses on modeling the business domain and separating it from technical 
implementation details. In DDD, the folder structure typically revolves 
around the concept of bounded contexts, aggregates, entities, value objects, 
repositories, and application services. Here are some key folder components 
in DDD: 

1. **Domain**: This folder contains the core business logic and represents 
the heart of the application. It includes aggregates, entities, value 
objects, and domain services. 

2. **Infrastructure**: This folder holds implementation details and external 
dependencies. It includes repositories, data access objects, external 
services, and other infrastructure-related code. 

3. **Application**: This folder contains the application layer that 
coordinates the interaction between the domain and infrastructure layers. It 
includes application services, commands, queries, and any application-
specific logic. 

4. **UI**: This folder represents the user interface layer, including web 
controllers, views, and user interface-related code. 

Clean Architecture, on the other hand, focuses on maintaining a strict 
separation of concerns and dependency rule enforcement. It emphasizes the 
independence of business logic from frameworks and external dependencies. The 
folder structure in Clean Architecture is organized in concentric circles, 
with each circle representing a different layer. Here are the key folder 
components in Clean Architecture: 

1. **Entities**: This folder contains the business entities or models that 
represent the core business concepts. 

2. **Use Cases/Interactors**: This folder holds the application-specific 
business rules and use cases. It contains the application logic independent 
of any UI or infrastructure concerns. 

3. **Interfaces/Adapters**: This folder represents the input and output 
interfaces of the application. It includes gateways, controllers, presenters, 
and any communication interfaces with external systems. 

4. **Frameworks/Drivers**: This folder contains the implementation details 
and frameworks. It includes external libraries, database connectors, web 
frameworks, and other technical infrastructure code. 

The key distinction between DDD and Clean Architecture lies in the emphasis 
and focus of the folder structure. DDD places a strong emphasis on the domain 
and modeling the business concepts, while Clean Architecture focuses on 
enforcing architectural boundaries and separating concerns. The specific 
folder structures may vary depending on the project and implementation 
preferences, but these are the general guidelines for organizing code within 
each architectural pattern. 
