# Step 2

Could you explain in more details what is the responsibility of each type of file?

- application/services
- application/repositories
- infrastructure/repositories

Let's dive into the responsibilities of each type of file in the context of DDD: 

**Application Services (`application/services`):** 

- Responsibility: Application services coordinate the interaction between the 
domain models/entities, perform use case-specific operations, and handle 
transactions if necessary. They encapsulate the application logic that 
operates on the domain models. 

- Implementation: In the `application` directory, the `account_service.py` 
file represents an application service specific to the Account domain. It 
would typically contain methods that orchestrate actions between domain 
models, enforce business rules, and handle any application-specific 
operations related to accounts. 

**Application Repositories (`application/repositories`):** 

- Responsibility: Application repositories define interfaces or contracts for 
data access related to the domain models. They provide methods to perform 
CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on the domain models. 

- Implementation: In the `application` directory, the `account_repository.py` 
file represents an application repository interface specific to the Account 
domain. It would define methods like `get_account`, `save_account`, `
delete_account`, etc., which will be implemented by the infrastructure 
repositories. 

**Infrastructure Repositories (`infrastructure/repositories`):** 

- Responsibility: Infrastructure repositories implement the interfaces 
defined in the application layer. They handle the technical details of data 
persistence, such as saving and retrieving data from databases or other 
external services. 

- Implementation: In the `infrastructure` directory, the `
account_repository_impl.py` file represents the implementation of the `
account_repository.py` interface defined in the application layer. It would 
contain code that interacts with the database or external services to perform 
the actual data persistence operations for the Account domain. 

In summary, application services encapsulate the application-specific logic 
and orchestrate interactions between domain models. Application repositories 
define interfaces for data access and provide abstraction for accessing 
domain models. Infrastructure repositories implement these interfaces and 
handle the technical details of data persistence. 

It's worth noting that this is a simplified explanation, and in more complex 
applications, you may have additional files and responsibilities within each 
layer. The exact responsibilities and implementations can vary based on the 
specific requirements and architecture choices of your application.