# Adapter

The Adapter design pattern is a structural design pattern that allows objects 
with incompatible interfaces to work together. It acts as a bridge between 
two incompatible interfaces, converting the interface of one object into 
another interface that clients expect. This pattern is also known as the 
Wrapper pattern. 

Here is some additional information about the Adapter design pattern: 

**Intent:** 

The Adapter design pattern is used when: 

- You want to use an existing class, but its interface doesn't match the one 
you need. 

- You want to create a reusable class that cooperates with unrelated or 
unforeseen classes. 

- You need to work with multiple classes that have similar functionalities 
but different interfaces. 

**Key Components:** 

- **Target**: This defines the domain-specific interface that the client 
uses. 

- **Adapter**: This adapts the interface of the Adaptee to the Target 
interface. It is the class that implements the Target interface and holds a 
reference to the Adaptee object. 

- **Adaptee**: This is the existing class that needs to be adapted or wrapped 
to match the Target interface. It contains the functionality that the Adapter 
uses. 

**Example Scenario:** 

Suppose you have an application that plays media files, and you have an 
existing MediaPlayer interface with methods like `play()`, `pause()`, and `
stop()`. Now, you want to introduce a new AdvancedMediaPlayer interface with 
methods like `playVideo()` and `playAudio()`. To make the existing 
MediaPlayer compatible with the new interface, you can use an Adapter class 
that implements the AdvancedMediaPlayer interface and internally uses the 
existing MediaPlayer. 

**Benefits:** 

- Allows objects with incompatible interfaces to collaborate. 

- Helps to reuse existing classes that are not compatible with the required 
interface. 

- Provides a clean and consistent interface for clients. 

Please note that the Adapter pattern can be implemented in different ways, 
such as class adapters and object adapters, each with its own pros and cons. 

I hope this gives you a good overview of the Adapter design pattern. If you 
have any specific questions or need further clarification, feel free to ask!