# Step 3 

Could you explain in more details what is the responsibility of each type of file?

- domain/models
- domain/services
- application/dtos
- application/repositories
- application/services
- application/use_cases

Here's a detailed explanation of the responsibility of each type of file in 
the provided file structure: 

1. **Domain/Models**: 

- This folder contains the domain models or entities that represent the core 
concepts of your application's domain. 

- The models typically encapsulate the behavior and state related to specific 
domain concepts. They are independent of any application-specific logic or 
infrastructure details. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `Post` model representing a blog 
post and the `Comment` model representing a comment. 

2. **Domain/Services**: 

- This folder contains domain services or utility classes that encapsulate 
domain-specific logic or operations that don't naturally fit within a 
specific entity. 

- Services in this folder typically encapsulate behavior that spans across 
multiple entities or require complex business rules. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `PostValidator` service for 
validating post-related operations and the `CommentValidator` service for 
validating comment-related operations. 

3. **Application/DTOs**: 

- This folder contains Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) used for transferring 
data between different layers or components of the application. 

- DTOs are simple container objects that carry data without any behavior or 
business logic. They help decouple the internal representation of data from 
the external interfaces. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `PostDTO` for transferring post 
data and the `CommentDTO` for transferring comment data. 

4. **Application/Repositories**: 

- This folder contains interfaces or classes responsible for data access and 
persistence operations related to specific entities. 

- Repositories provide a way to abstract the underlying data storage and 
provide a consistent interface for retrieving and persisting entities. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `PostRepository` interface or 
class for managing blog post data and the `CommentRepository` interface or 
class for managing comment data. 

5. **Application/Services**: 

- This folder contains application-specific services or utility classes that 
provide high-level operations or functionality. 

- These services may depend on one or more repositories and may orchestrate 
complex operations involving multiple entities or services. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `PostService` for handling 
operations related to blog posts and the `CommentService` for handling 
operations related to comments. 

6. **Application/Use_Cases**: 

- This folder contains the implementation of use cases or application-
specific operations that encapsulate a specific user or system goal. 

- Use cases represent a high-level abstraction of the functionality provided 
by the application and define the interactions between different components. 

- Examples in this folder might include the `CreatePost` use case for 
creating a new blog post, the `UpdatePost` use case for updating an existing 
post, and so on. 

Please note that the file organization and responsibilities can vary 
depending on the specific application and architectural choices. The provided 
explanation outlines a typical structure based on Domain-Driven Design (DDD) 
principles and can be adapted or extended to fit your specific requirements.