# Clean Architecture - Adapters

In the "clean architecture," the Adapters layer is responsible for 
interacting with external systems, such as frameworks, databases, or user 
interfaces. Here are some examples of Python code representing the different 
components in the Adapters layer: 

1. Controllers: Controllers receive input from external sources, handle 
requests, and coordinate the flow of data. They serve as the entry point to 
the application and orchestrate the use cases. 

```python
class UserController:
    def __init__(self, user_interactor):
        self.user_interactor = user_interactor

    def create_user(self, request):
        user_data = request.get_json()
        user_id = self.user_interactor.create_user(user_data)
        return jsonify({"user_id": user_id}), 201
```

2. Gateways: Gateways are responsible for interacting with external systems, 
such as databases or APIs, to retrieve or persist data. Here's an example of 
a UserRepository acting as a gateway to a database: 

```python
class UserRepository:
    def create(self, user_data):
        # Database interaction code to create a user
        # ...

    def get_by_id(self, user_id):
        # Database interaction code to retrieve a user by ID
        # ...
```

3. Presenters: Presenters format data for the appropriate output format, such 
as HTML, JSON, or XML, to be presented to the user. Here's an example of a 
UserPresenter: 

```python
class UserPresenter:
    def format_user(self, user):
        return {
            "id": user.id,
            "name": user.name,
            "email": user.email,
            # ...
        }
```

These examples demonstrate the basic structure and responsibilities of the 
components within the Adapters layer. Keep in mind that the actual 
implementation details may vary based on the specific needs and frameworks 
used in your application. 


## Does this adapters have the same concept of design pattern "adapter"?

No, the term "adapter" in the context of the Adapters layer in clean 
architecture does not refer to the same concept as the "adapter" design 
pattern. The Adapters layer in clean architecture is not specifically related 
to the Adapter design pattern. 

In clean architecture, the Adapters layer acts as a bridge between the 
external systems (frameworks, databases, UI) and the core business logic of 
the application. It provides the necessary interfaces and implementations to 
communicate with these external systems, ensuring that the core business 
logic remains decoupled from the specific details of these systems. 

On the other hand, the Adapter design pattern is a software design pattern 
that helps to convert the interface of one class into another interface that 
clients expect. It allows classes with incompatible interfaces to work 
together by wrapping the original class with an adapter class. 

While the naming might be similar, the Adapters layer in clean architecture 
and the Adapter design pattern serve different purposes and have different 
responsibilities. 
