# clean-code

Clean code refers to well-structured, readable, and maintainable code that is 
easy to understand and modify. It emphasizes writing code that not only works 
correctly but is also easy for other developers to comprehend and work with. 
Clean code follows a set of principles and practices that contribute to its 
quality and maintainability. 

Here are some key characteristics and principles of clean code: 

1. **Readability:** Clean code is easy to read and understand. It uses 
meaningful names for variables, functions, and classes, and follows a 
consistent naming convention. It is structured in a logical and organized 
manner, with proper indentation and formatting. 

2. **Simplicity:** Clean code aims to be simple and straightforward. It 
avoids unnecessary complexity, avoids redundancy, and follows the principle 
of "Keep It Simple, Stupid" (KISS). It prioritizes clarity over cleverness. 

3. **Modularity:** Clean code is modular, with well-defined functions and 
classes that have clear responsibilities. It follows the Single 
Responsibility Principle (SRP), where each module should have only one reason 
to change. 

4. **SOLID Principles:** Clean code adheres to the SOLID principles, which 
are a set of principles for object-oriented design. These principles include 
the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP), Open-Closed Principle (OCP), 
Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP), Interface Segregation Principle (ISP), 
and Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP). These principles promote code that 
is modular, extensible, and loosely coupled. 

5. **Code Reusability:** Clean code promotes code reuse. It encourages the 
extraction of reusable components, such as functions or classes, to avoid 
duplication and improve maintainability. 

6. **Consistent Formatting:** Clean code follows a consistent coding style 
and formatting guidelines. This helps improve readability and makes it easier 
for multiple developers to collaborate on a project. Consistent formatting 
can be achieved using coding conventions, linting tools, and automated code 
formatters. 

7. **Unit Testing:** Clean code is accompanied by unit tests to ensure its 
correctness. It follows the principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) or 
Behavior-Driven Development (BDD), where tests are written before the code. 
This helps ensure that the code is reliable and provides a safety net when 
making changes. 

8. **Comments and Documentation:** Clean code includes clear and concise 
comments and documentation where necessary. It explains the intention behind 
the code, its purpose, and any complex algorithms or business rules. However, 
the goal is to write self-explanatory code, reducing the need for excessive 
comments. 

9. **Continuous Refactoring:** Clean code is an ongoing process. It requires 
regular refactoring to improve its quality. Refactoring involves 
restructuring the code without changing its external behavior to make it 
cleaner, more maintainable, and easier to understand. 

By adhering to these principles and practices, developers can produce clean 
code that is more readable, maintainable, and less prone to bugs. Clean code 
not only benefits the original developer but also facilitates collaboration 
among team members and helps the codebase evolve smoothly over time. 


## Links

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mSYlZ2q0kFA
