# What are the differences between "Dependency Injection" and "Dependency Inversion"?

"Dependency Injection" (DI) and "Dependency Inversion" (DI) are related 
concepts but have different meanings and purposes. Let's clarify the 
differences between them: 

1. Dependency Injection (DI): Dependency Injection is a design pattern that 
facilitates the management and injection of dependencies into an object or 
class from external sources. It allows you to invert the responsibility of 
creating or providing dependencies to an external entity or framework, rather 
than having the object itself create or obtain its dependencies. The main 
idea behind DI is to decouple the creation and management of dependencies 
from the objects that depend on them, making the code more modular, flexible, 
and testable. 

DI can be implemented in different ways, such as constructor injection, 
setter injection, or method injection. In all cases, the dependencies are 
passed into the object or class from the outside, either manually or through 
a DI container or framework. This way, the object doesn't need to know how to 
create its dependencies or where they come from, improving code 
maintainability, reusability, and testability. 

The concept of a DI container is closely related to the Inversion of Control 
(IoC) principle, which is a fundamental concept in dependency injection. The 
DI container facilitates the inversion of control by taking responsibility 
for creating and managing the dependencies, allowing the objects to focus on 
their core functionalities.

2. Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP): The Dependency Inversion Principle 
is one of the SOLID principles and is closely related to DI. DIP states that 
high-level modules/classes should not depend on low-level modules/classes 
directly; both should depend on abstractions (interfaces or abstract classes).
It promotes the idea that abstractions should define contracts, and details 
should depend on abstractions, not the other way around. 

DIP is about designing and organizing the dependencies in a way that high-
level modules/classes depend on abstract interfaces or base classes, which 
provide a level of indirection. This allows for flexibility, extensibility, 
and easy substitution of components without impacting the higher-level 
modules. In other words, DIP promotes loose coupling and promotes the use of 
interfaces or abstract classes to define dependencies, enabling DI to be 
applied effectively. 

To summarize, Dependency Injection is a technique used to provide 
dependencies to an object or class from external sources, while Dependency 
Inversion is a principle that advocates the use of abstractions and defines 
the relationship between high-level and low-level modules/classes. DI is 
often used to implement the Dependency Inversion Principle and achieve loose 
coupling and modular design.