# TDD

## Could you talk a little about the history of TDD?

Test-driven development (TDD) is a software development process that
emphasizes the importance of writing automated tests before writing the
actual code. The idea behind TDD is that by writing the tests first,
developers can better understand what they need to build, catch bugs early,
and ensure that their code works as expected.

The concept of TDD can be traced back to the work of Kent Beck, who wrote
about it in his book "Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change" in
1999. However, the practice of writing tests before writing code has been
around for much longer.

TDD became popular in the early 2000s as part of the larger Agile software
development movement. Today, TDD is widely used by developers and has been
adopted by many software development methodologies.

In summary, TDD is a relatively new software development process that has
gained popularity in recent years as part of the Agile movement. It has
proven to be an effective way for developers to catch bugs early, better
understand their code, and improve the quality of their software.


## Can you talk a little about TDD and 100% coverage?

One concept that is often associated with TDD is 100% coverage. This means
that all lines of code in the software application are tested by at least
one automated test. The idea behind 100% coverage is that it ensures that
the code is thoroughly tested and any potential bugs or issues are caught
early in the development process.

However, achieving 100% coverage can be difficult and time-consuming. It's
important to remember that 100% coverage does not guarantee that the
software application is bug-free or meets all the requirements. It's just
one aspect of ensuring that the code is of high quality.

In some cases, striving for 100% coverage can also lead to excessive
testing and code that is hard to maintain. Therefore, the decision to aim
for 100% coverage should be balanced against the cost and effort required
to achieve it. In general, it's recommended to aim for a reasonable level
of coverage that provides confidence in the code's functionality, but not
necessarily 100%.
