# Principles, theorems, and concepts 

For an architect of systems and solutions we have several theorems that help 
him to design the solution, one of them for example is the CAP theorem that 
compares Consistency, Avaliability and Partition tolerance. What would be all 
the theorems or even things that are not theorems but that are part of the 
repertoire of a systems/solution architect?

## Answer

As a systems/solution architect, there are various principles, theorems, and 
concepts that can inform your decision-making process and design 
considerations. Here are several important ones: 

1. CAP Theorem: The CAP theorem states that in a distributed data system, it 
is impossible to simultaneously achieve Consistency, Availability, and 
Partition tolerance. Architects must understand the trade-offs and choose the 
appropriate balance for their specific system. 

2. ACID Properties: ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and 
Durability. These properties ensure reliable and predictable transactional 
behavior in databases and systems. 

3. BASE Principle: BASE stands for Basically Available, Soft state, 
Eventually consistent. It is an alternative approach to system design that 
relaxes consistency guarantees in favor of improved availability and 
responsiveness. 

4. The Fallacies of Distributed Computing: These fallacies highlight common 
misconceptions when designing distributed systems, including assumptions 
about network reliability, latency, and topology. Architects should be aware 
of these fallacies to avoid potential pitfalls. 

5. Brewer's Conjecture (Brewer's CAP Theorem): This is another formulation of 
the CAP theorem by Eric Brewer. It states that in a distributed system, you 
can only guarantee two of the following three properties: Consistency, 
Availability, and Partition tolerance. 

6. The Law of Demeter: This principle advises that an object should have 
limited knowledge about other objects, promoting loose coupling and modular 
design. 

7. Single Responsibility Principle (SRP): This principle states that each 
module or class should have only one reason to change. It promotes high 
cohesion and reduces the impact of changes in one module on others. 

8. Separation of Concerns (SoC): SoC advocates for breaking down a system 
into distinct and manageable parts, with each part addressing a specific 
concern. This enhances modularity, maintainability, and reusability. 

9. SOLID Principles: SOLID is an acronym representing five principles—Single 
Responsibility, Open-Closed, Liskov Substitution, Interface Segregation, and 
Dependency Inversion—aimed at guiding object-oriented software design and 
architecture. 

10. Microservices Architecture: Microservices architecture promotes building 
a system as a collection of small, loosely coupled, and independently 
deployable services, enabling scalability, flexibility, and resilience. 

11. Domain-Driven Design (DDD): DDD is an approach that aligns software 
design with the domain it represents. It emphasizes modeling business 
concepts and domain logic explicitly in the software architecture. 

12. Caching Strategies: Caching involves storing frequently accessed data in 
a fast-accessible location. Architects need to consider cache strategies such 
as write-through, write-around, and write-back to optimize system 
performance. 

13. Load Balancing: Load balancing techniques distribute incoming network 
traffic across multiple servers to enhance system availability, scalability, 
and performance. 

14. Security Principles: Security is a crucial consideration for architects. 
Concepts like authentication, authorization, encryption, and secure 
communication protocols must be incorporated into the design. 

15. Scalability Patterns: Architectures can utilize various scalability 
patterns, such as sharding, replication, and vertical/horizontal scaling, to 
handle increasing workloads and ensure system performance. 

These are just a few examples of the principles, theorems, and concepts that 
a systems/solution architect should be familiar with. Depending on the domain 
and specific requirements of the system being designed, additional knowledge 
and expertise may be necessary.

